A Tutor for Keys
================

Introduction
------------

** Real coders don't use mouse **.

[Muscle Memory](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muscle_memory) is useful. When we
remember keyboard shortcuts we end up increasing productivity. But we use a
lllllllot of software and since one differs from another, one's keyboard
shortcuts differ from that of another.

Many a time, I have experienced what I call "memory lapses". I know what
*function* I want a software to perform, but the keyboard shortcut for it
has simply fallen through cracks (in my memory ;) ). What I need in that
situation is simply a stimulus (which is of course available with a keyboard
shortcut!) that brings back the memory. The stimulus is __named__ in plain
English since I know __exactly what I want__.

Well, if you are like me (I am sure you are), your wait is over with this
small Ruby utility that learns and teaches. It learns a webpage (or other
simpler formats) full of keyboard shortcuts and provides them to you
in case you need. It has a simple interface that just waits for you to
type an English phrase (and a few commands of its own) and then it returns
possible matches for that phrase from the current software you have configured
it for.

All the strings used are friendly regular expressions -- as if it __knows__ what
you are looking for. The interaction follows simplistic pattern:
command-mnemonics [optional-phrase-regular-expression] -- that's all.

The command matches increasing number of characters entered so that they are just
enough to disambiguate (e.g. s, sh, sho, show all mean the "show" command).

Here is a sample interaction:
-----------------------------

$ ./gkeys.rb
----> Loaded [firefox, chrome, intellij, vim] shortcuts
gk> k open
----> Open File = Ctrl + O
----> Open URL  = Ctrl + L
....
gk> use firefox
----> now showing firefox shortcuts
gk> keys close
....
gk> use intellij
----> now showing intellij shortcuts
gk> use rubym
----> now showing rubymine shortcuts
gk> use vim
----> now showing vim shortcuts
gk> learn http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/keyboard%20shortcuts
----> learned the keyboard shortcuts for Firefox Support (will overwrite these from local store if you save)
gk> learn shortcuts.txt
----> learned the keyboard shortcuts for ...
gk> list
----> [firefox, chrome, intellij, rubymine]
gk> help
----> h[elp]           -- prints this help page
----> exa[mples]       -- shows example usage
----> le[arn] <url>    -- learns the shortcuts from this url, can be a local file too
----> li[st]           -- lists names of currently learned software programs
----> k[eys] <regex>   -- shows the shortcut for the actions identified by <regex>
----> s[how] <strokes> -- shows function the pressed keys correspond to, if any (also shows what you pressed)
----> t[ips] <number>  -- shows <number> __random__ shortcuts in current software program (with a delay)
----> u[se] <name>     -- uses <name> software program as "current software program"
----> q[uit] or exi[t] -- quits
gk> quit
----> Save? (Y/n) 
Bye. Happy keyboarding!
$

Like it?

In __offline__ mode, you can use it to train yourself.

Appeal to Shortcut documentation folks
--------------------------------------
Consider providing clear cut HTML pages documenting your product's keyboard shortcuts so that they (pages)
are easier to parse ;)
